# DATA512 - Homework 1: Professionalism and Reproducibility
## Academy Award Winning Articles Monthly Traffic Analysis

This study aims to construct, analyze, and publish a dataset of monthly traffic for articles about academy award winning movies from English Wikipedia from July 1, 2015 through September 30, 2023. It explores some common patterns and trends in the pageviews of academy award winning movies across desktop and mobile access types as a time series analysis. The article traffic data from 2015-2023 was collected from the [Pageviews API](https://wikitech.wikimedia.org/wiki/Analytics/AQS/Pageviews) that provides access to desktop, mobile web, and mobile app pageviews count. Content accessed via this API is licensed under the [CC-BY-SA 3.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/) and [GFDL](https://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html) licenses. By using this API, Wikimedia's [Terms of Use](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/REST_API#Terms_and_conditions) are applied and agreed upon. For additional details, please refer to the [API documentation](https://wikimedia.org/api/rest_v1/#/Pageviews%20data).

The pageviews counts collected from the API used a specified subset of Wikipedia article pages that represent a large number of [articles about academy award winning movies](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1A1h_7KAo7KXaVxdScJmIVPTvjb3IuY9oZhNV4ZHxrxw/edit?usp=sharing). The data retrieved was then used to create three related datasets based on the access types - mobile, desktop, and both, all of which were time series of monthly activity. These datasets were then saved as JSON files ordered using article titles as a key, with the exception of removing the ‘access’ field as it was misleading for mobile and cumulative files. The three datasets created are mentioned below in more detail,

1. Monthly Mobile Access: The API separates mobile access types into two separate requests - mobile-web, and mobile-app. The total views of both these types were evaluated to make one count for all mobile pageviews. The final data was exported to the local system as a JSON file with the name 'academy_monthly_mobile_start201507-end202309.json'.
2. Monthly Desktop Access: Monthly desktop page traffic is based on one single request, and the API request was made by setting the access type to 'desktop'. The final data was exported to the local system as a JSON file with the name 'academy_monthly_desktop_start201507-end202309.json'.
3. Monthly Cumulative Access: Monthly cumulative data is the sum of all mobile, and all desktop traffic per article per month. The final data was exported to the local system as a JSON file with the name 'academy_monthly_cumulative_start201507-end202309.json'.

All the three intermediate output data files were a list of dictionaries where each dictionary had the article name as the key. The values for this dictionary were once again a list of dictionaries with five key-value pairs - 'project', 'granularity', 'timestamp', 'agent', and 'views'. Except for 'views' which had integer values, all the other keys had string values. It is also important to note that the 'timestamp' variable's format was later changed to the type datetime to ease the analysis process.

The report finally built three plots to shed some light on the trends and patterns present in the underlying monthly article traffic data. The first graph - 'Maximum and Minimum Average' explored the time series relationship for the articles that had the highest average monthly page requests and the lowest average monthly page requests for desktop access and mobile access. The second graph - 'Top 10 Peak Page Views' contained time series data for the top 10 article pages by largest page views over the entire time by access type. Finally, the third graph - 'Fewest Months of Data' showed pages that had the fewest months of available data across desktop and mobile access types. More information about the analysis and results can be found in the 'Monthly Traffic Analysis' notebook of the repository.
